README.md, before:

# Libre Testnet Local Network

## Description

Libre Local provides a quick way to setup a Local Testnet network for development.
The primary benefits of containers are consistency across different environments and deployment ease.

This project works along with a [full-stack-boilerplate](https://github.com/eoscostarica/full-stack-boilerplate) to help you build your AntelopeIO dApp.

## Why to use a local environment?

A local environment provides a series of benefits that you cannot in a public network, for example, with Libre locally, transaction costs are avoided since they are carried out in a development environment and not in production, also, they are accessed to system contracts to modify them as appropriate.

In a Blockchain network every transaction creates an immutable record and everything that is modified can affect both positively and negatively the users within it, it is for this reason that it is essential to have an environment premises where functionality tests, performance tests, stress tests, among others, can be carried out without the risk of producing a failure that affects users.

Finally, a factor to consider is the time that is reduced in the initial configuration of any network, this image allows directly, with only two commands to have the network installed and ready to perform functionality tests as necessary.

## Contracts

The AntelopeIO image is based on the `eosio.system`, `eosio.token` and `eosio.msig` contracts for its configuration. Your code can be found at [this link](https://github.com/AntelopeIO/reference-contracts/tree/main/contracts).

1. **eosio.system**: Defines the structures and actions needed for blockchain's core functionality.
2. **eosio.token**: Defines the structures and actions that allow users to create, issue, and manage tokens for AntelopeIO-based blockchains.
3. **eosio.msig**: Allows the creation of proposed transactions that require authorization from a list of accounts.

### Deployable projects

1. Eden: Take a look at the smart contract code [here](https://github.com/gofractally/Eden/tree/main/contracts).
2. simpleassets: A simple standard for digital assets on AntelopeIO blockchains: Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs), Fungible Tokens (FTs), and Non-Transferable Tokens (NTTs). Take a look at the smart contract code [here](https://github.com/CryptoLions/SimpleAssets).
3. atomicassets: AtomicAssets is a Non Fungible Token (NFT) standard for eosio blockchains developed by pink.network. Take a look at the smart contract code [here](https://github.com/pinknetworkx/atomicassets-contract).
4. dgoods: dGoods is an open source and free standard for handling the virtual representation of items, both digital and physical, on the EOS blockchain led by Mythical Games. Take a look at the smart contract code [here](https://github.com/MythicalGames/dgoods).

### Prerequisites

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
- [Eosio](https://developers.eos.io/welcome/latest/getting-started-guide/local-development-environment/index)
- [Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/)

## Get started

- Create you `.env` running `cp .env.example .env`
- Update your `.env` with is respective values. For `REPOSITORY_URL` assign the repository url
- Run `update-contract`. _This step make request for credentials_
- Build the smart contracts and run the blockchain `make run`
- Run the command `cleos get info` or check the link in the browser `http://127.0.0.1:8888/v1/chain/get_info`

If you run the command `cleos get info` or go to `http://127.0.0.1:8888/v1/chain/get_info` and get information like the following it is because you already have the environment ready to work.

```
{"server_version":"e57a1eab","chain_id":"981453d176ddca32aa278ff7b8af9bf4632de00ab49db273db03115705d90c5a","head_block_num":66,"last_irreversible_block_num":65,"last_irreversible_block_id":"00000041fcc36403c71cebfc95810f610412b474f60735639fcaa2d241fe5ffa","head_block_id":"00000042a08478812c642d311f5ff22b9212559eeb9ee1042925742d8b46dd7f","head_block_time":"2021-07-08T05:48:45.500","head_block_producer":"eosio","virtual_block_cpu_limit":213407,"virtual_block_net_limit":1118998,"block_cpu_limit":199900,"block_net_limit":1048576,"server_version_string":"v2.0.12","fork_db_head_block_num":66,"fork_db_head_block_id":"00000042a08478812c642d311f5ff22b9212559eeb9ee1042925742d8b46dd7f","server_full_version_string":"v2.0.12-e57a1eab619edffc25afa7eceb05a01ab575c34a"}
```

**Note:** As it is a quick start, you can use the following generated keys for `TESTNET_EOSIO_PRIVATE_KEY` and `TESTNET_EOSIO_PUBLIC_KEY`.

```
Private key: 5JZSuHernxdc6NHG2vV1XrAz61kvQmz71S473hQQdmdc4AwSP6a
Public key: EOS7tJAV8DPN5Q3byKeKzWax6BDmPbWN1i64YaDAr7g8NhPDPKcfN
```

> Don't use these keys in production environments, since they are public and it's just to start easily. Also consider that you will need to import your `own keys` to your wallet or the one provided in the `.env.example` file.

## Instructions for creating Libre Local Network image locally

To create the Docker image locally, you must run the following commands:

- Clone the local Eos repository `https://github.com/edenia/libre-local`
- Enter to the cloned repository folder `cd <path/libre-local>`
- Build the Dockerfile image with env variables `make build-docker` or `docker build -t libre-local --build-arg testnet_eosio_public_key="<public_key>" --build-arg testnet_eosio_private_key="<private_key>" .`
- Run the Dockerfile image `make run` or `docker run -dp 8888:8888 libre-local`
- Run the command `cleos get info` or check the link in the browser `http://127.0.0.1:8888/v1/chain/get_info`

By this point, you already have the Libre Local Network image running locally.

If you wish to setup a version example of the current Smart Contracts currently running on Libre Mainnet or Libre Testnet, you can run the following command in the root folder of the repository:

```sh
./scripts/contracts.sh
```

> **Note:** If you wish to run a modified version of the contracts here provided, you can update them, get the wasm and put them in the `./wasm` folder, reset the network and run the command above.

## File structure

```text title="./libre-local"
/
.
├── .github
│   └── workflows
│       └── publish-docker-image.yml
├── CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
├── CONTRIBUTING.md
├── Dockerfile ............... Contains instructions for building the Libre Local Network image
├── LICENSE .................. Terms and Conditions
├── README.md ................ Repository specification
├── config.ini ............... Nodeos configuration file
├── docker-compose.yaml ...... Container definition
├── docs ..................... Some media content for README
├── genesis.json ............. Specifies the network genesis node parameters
├── makefile ................. Shell commands
└── start.sh ................. Instructions for configuring contracts and usage characteristics
```

## Contributing

If you want to contribute to this repository, please follow the steps below:

1. Fork the project
2. Create a new branch (`git checkout -b feat/sometodo`)
3. Commit changes (`git commit -m '<type>(<scope>): <subject>'`)
4. Push the commit (`git push origin feat/sometodo`)
5. Open a Pull Request

Read the EOS Costa Rica open source [contribution guidelines](https://guide.eoscostarica.io/docs/open-source-guidelines/) for more information on scheduling conventions.

If you find any bugs, please report them by opening an issue at [this link](https://github.com/eoscostarica/libre-local/issues).

## What is AntelopeIO?

AntelopeIO is a highly performant open-source blockchain platform, built to support and operate safe, compliant, and predictable digital infrastructures.

<span align="center">

<a href="https://edenia.com"><img width="400" alt="image" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/edenia/.github/master/.github/workflows/images/edenia-logo.png"></img></a>

[![Twitter](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/EdeniaWeb3?style=for-the-badge)](https://twitter.com/EdeniaWeb3)
![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/946500573677625344?color=black&label=discord&logo=discord&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge)

Edenia runs independent blockchain infrastructure and develops web3 solutions. Our team of technology-agnostic builders has been operating since 1987, leveraging the newest technologies to make the internet safer, more efficient, and more transparent.

[edenia.com](https://edenia.com)
</span>

Commit message:

build(deploy): use docker compose approach

README.md, after:

# Libre Testnet Local Network

## Description

Libre Local provides a quick way to setup a Local Testnet network for development.
The primary benefits of containers are consistency across different environments and deployment ease.

This project works along with a [full-stack-boilerplate](https://github.com/eoscostarica/full-stack-boilerplate) to help you build your AntelopeIO dApp.

## Why to use a local environment?

A local environment provides a series of benefits that you cannot in a public network, for example, with Libre locally, transaction costs are avoided since they are carried out in a development environment and not in production, also, they are accessed to system contracts to modify them as appropriate.

In a Blockchain network every transaction creates an immutable record and everything that is modified can affect both positively and negatively the users within it, it is for this reason that it is essential to have an environment premises where functionality tests, performance tests, stress tests, among others, can be carried out without the risk of producing a failure that affects users.

Finally, a factor to consider is the time that is reduced in the initial configuration of any network, this image allows directly, with only two commands to have the network installed and ready to perform functionality tests as necessary.

## Contracts

The AntelopeIO image is based on the `eosio.system`, `eosio.token` and `eosio.msig` contracts for its configuration. Your code can be found at [this link](https://github.com/AntelopeIO/reference-contracts/tree/main/contracts).

1. **eosio.system**: Defines the structures and actions needed for blockchain's core functionality.
2. **eosio.token**: Defines the structures and actions that allow users to create, issue, and manage tokens for AntelopeIO-based blockchains.
3. **eosio.msig**: Allows the creation of proposed transactions that require authorization from a list of accounts.

### Deployable projects

1. Eden: Take a look at the smart contract code [here](https://github.com/gofractally/Eden/tree/main/contracts).
2. simpleassets: A simple standard for digital assets on AntelopeIO blockchains: Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs), Fungible Tokens (FTs), and Non-Transferable Tokens (NTTs). Take a look at the smart contract code [here](https://github.com/CryptoLions/SimpleAssets).
3. atomicassets: AtomicAssets is a Non Fungible Token (NFT) standard for eosio blockchains developed by pink.network. Take a look at the smart contract code [here](https://github.com/pinknetworkx/atomicassets-contract).
4. dgoods: dGoods is an open source and free standard for handling the virtual representation of items, both digital and physical, on the EOS blockchain led by Mythical Games. Take a look at the smart contract code [here](https://github.com/MythicalGames/dgoods).

### Prerequisites

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
- [Eosio](https://developers.eos.io/welcome/latest/getting-started-guide/local-development-environment/index)
- [Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/)

## Get started

- Create you `.env` by running `cp .env.example .env`
- Start the network with `make fast-run`. This will download the images if you don't have them and start the network
- Run the command `cleos get info` or check the link in the browser `http://127.0.0.1:8888/v1/chain/get_info`

If you run the command `cleos get info` or go to `http://127.0.0.1:8888/v1/chain/get_info` and get information like the following it is because you already have the environment ready to work.

```
{"server_version":"e57a1eab","chain_id":"981453d176ddca32aa278ff7b8af9bf4632de00ab49db273db03115705d90c5a","head_block_num":66,"last_irreversible_block_num":65,"last_irreversible_block_id":"00000041fcc36403c71cebfc95810f610412b474f60735639fcaa2d241fe5ffa","head_block_id":"00000042a08478812c642d311f5ff22b9212559eeb9ee1042925742d8b46dd7f","head_block_time":"2021-07-08T05:48:45.500","head_block_producer":"eosio","virtual_block_cpu_limit":213407,"virtual_block_net_limit":1118998,"block_cpu_limit":199900,"block_net_limit":1048576,"server_version_string":"v2.0.12","fork_db_head_block_num":66,"fork_db_head_block_id":"00000042a08478812c642d311f5ff22b9212559eeb9ee1042925742d8b46dd7f","server_full_version_string":"v2.0.12-e57a1eab619edffc25afa7eceb05a01ab575c34a"}
```

**Note:** As it is a quick start, you can use the `.env.example` file with the key there provided.

> Don't use these keys in production environments, since they are public and it's just to start easily. Also consider that you will need to import your `own keys` to your wallet or the one provided in the `.env.example` file.

## Instructions for creating Libre Local Network image locally

To create the Docker image locally, you must run the following commands:

- Clone the local Eos repository `https://github.com/edenia/libre-local`
- Enter to the cloned repository folder `cd <path/libre-local>`
- Create your `.env` file `cp .env.example .env`
- Run the Dockerfile image `make run`, this will use the Dockerfiles to build the images and start the network according to the information in the nodes directory.
- Run the command `cleos get info` or check the link in the browser `http://127.0.0.1:8888/v1/chain/get_info`

By this point, you already have the Libre Local Network image running locally.

If you wish to use the Smart Contracts currently running on Libre Mainnet or Libre Testnet, you can use the following command in the root folder of the repository to set them up:

```sh
./scripts/contracts.sh
```

> **Note:** To run a modified version of the contracts, you can update them, get the wasm and put them in the `./wasm` folder with their respective contract names, reset the network and run the previous command.

## File structure

```text title="./libre-local"
/
.
├── .github
│   └── workflows
│       └── publish-docker-image.yml
├── CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
├── CONTRIBUTING.md
├── Dockerfile ............... Contains instructions for building the Libre Local Network image
├── LICENSE .................. Terms and Conditions
├── README.md ................ Repository specification
├── config.ini ............... Nodeos configuration file
├── docker-compose.yaml ...... Container definition
├── docs ..................... Some media content for README
├── genesis.json ............. Specifies the network genesis node parameters
├── makefile ................. Shell commands
└── start.sh ................. Instructions for configuring contracts and usage characteristics
```

## Contributing

If you want to contribute to this repository, please follow the steps below:

1. Fork the project
2. Create a new branch (`git checkout -b feat/sometodo`)
3. Commit changes (`git commit -m '<type>(<scope>): <subject>'`)
4. Push the commit (`git push origin feat/sometodo`)
5. Open a Pull Request

Read the EOS Costa Rica open source [contribution guidelines](https://guide.eoscostarica.io/docs/open-source-guidelines/) for more information on scheduling conventions.

If you find any bugs, please report them by opening an issue at [this link](https://github.com/eoscostarica/libre-local/issues).

## What is AntelopeIO?

AntelopeIO is a highly performant open-source blockchain platform, built to support and operate safe, compliant, and predictable digital infrastructures.

<span align="center">

<a href="https://edenia.com"><img width="400" alt="image" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/edenia/.github/master/.github/workflows/images/edenia-logo.png"></img></a>

[![Twitter](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/EdeniaWeb3?style=for-the-badge)](https://twitter.com/EdeniaWeb3)
![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/946500573677625344?color=black&label=discord&logo=discord&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge)

Edenia runs independent blockchain infrastructure and develops web3 solutions. Our team of technology-agnostic builders has been operating since 1987, leveraging the newest technologies to make the internet safer, more efficient, and more transparent.

[edenia.com](https://edenia.com)
</span>
